# Soola-The-wine-Tester

People today strive to live lavish lifestyles. They often use the items either to flaunt their possessions or on a regular basis. One such item is Wine. Wine is an alcoholic beverage made from fermented grape juice.Wine production is a time consuming process. Wine has been there for a long time. Wine has been believed to offer antioxidants that could lengthen life, and might help prevent heart disease and dangerous inflammation. In order to protect human health, it is crucial to evaluate and analyze the quality of wine before consuming it. Also for the wine makers there needs to be a procedure to analyze the quality of wine. This paper explores different machine learning algorithms which are cost- friendly and easy to use. A model has been developed using Random Forest Classifier which can indicate the quality of wine as bad or good. This type of prediction can be applied to different other products and makes human work easier.

Demand for wine has been growing since ages. Traditionally, the quality of wine was
determined by wine tasting professionals. They usually evaluate the taste and quality by looking - checking the opacity, viscosity and color ; smelling - fruit, herb, earth aromas with intensity of each; tasting - flavors and acidity and finally concluding - how much one liked it. But this is more subjective as it varies person to person and not a proper measure as it does not take into account the residual sugar, pH, citric acid, density, alcohol, etc. So it is important to take them into account. Nowadays, product quality prediction technology is used in order to objectively evaluate and identify the quality of a specific product. The proposed product quality prediction algorithms may accurately estimate or forecast product quality in real-time by analyzing sensor data produced by process tools. It can assist in achieving thorough inspection as well as dynamic process and labor adjustments to boost profits.The food industry has been growing and has become a large scale industry. We have a little sector of wine quality analysis where machine learning is heavily employed in our food business, which has become a significant user of these approaches. The sudden increase in wine quality testing is due to the fact that it
directly affects our health and, in addition, allows us to monitor changes in heart condition. Another good explanation for this would be the rise in wine consumption, which has made it necessary for each company to evaluate the quality of their wine and obtain grading certification in order to preserve its reputation and continue to operate in the corporate world. Thus, I was motivated to write a paper on the topic wine quality prediction and compare results and accuracies of different models.

It is often difficult to gauge the quality of wine by just looking at the label of Ingredients, however tasting and smelling can be other alternatives. However it is not always feasible. A wine quality prediction system using machine learning that can predict the quality of the wine using some chemical parameters. Consider a wine manufacturing company which needs to produce a new wine. Now for the production of a new wine, its quality needs to be evaluated using the data which consists of chemical parameters like residual sugar, citric acid, free sulfur dioxide, chlorides, fixed and volatile acidity, density, pH etc. Thus, we develop an algorithm that can predict how good or bad a wine is.

After collecting the data set, we would process the data. Then we will split the dataset into training and testing data. The dataset would then be passed through the machine learning algorithms. The prediction
is then made and the same data is again fed to the model for the training process.

The results are explained using the proportion of properly detected cases, precision, recall, and F measure. A variety of classifiers, including Logistic Regression, Decision Tree, Random Forest, KNearest Neighbour, and Support Vector Machine are tested on the datasets. According to the research' findings, the Random Forests Algorithm performs better than other classifiers in classification tasks. Up to 92 percent of the time, the Random Forest Algorithm accurately predicts wine quality. We can see that high-quality wines typically
have greater alcohol content, higher sulphate content, lower volatile acidity, and higher residual sugar content.

Future study might utilize a massive dataset to examine different machine learning techniques for predicting wine quality. Also we can patent our model and associate it with a wine manufacturing company.
